ANDY: Previously on NYPD Blue...
What asshole has the nerve
to send a truck full of boxes
before you're even gone?
Gentlemen and ladies
of the 15th, I have arrived.
Permission aboard, Lieutenant.
-Those are your boxes?
-Of course they are.
You're the new CO?
The Chief of Detectives
didn't give you a heads-up?
-No.
-This is April Fool's, right?
I wish you luck and all the best
in your new job, but, uh... keep in touch.
-ALL: Hear, Hear!
-Thanks.
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
(MUSIC FADES)
-What do we get?
-Tony DeKeys,
-shot repeatedly.
-JOHN: Who called it in?
Old lady, lives across the street.
She heard the shots,
but, uh, she didn't look
in time to see who did it.
It doesn't look like a robbery.
He was shot through the window.
He's wearing colors,
could be gang-related.
-Worth looking into.
-Hey, who's this?
-Hey, I'm Hatcher.
-And?
Stan Hatcher, the borough's assigned me
to your squad.
-Effective when?
-STAN: Today.
-You didn't know about this?
-JOHN: Nah, first we've heard.
I talked to your boss yesterday
and this morning.
He's the one who told me
to respond to this.
Gibson.
-Look, I don't wanna step on any toes.
-Hey, man, don't worry about it.
John Clark.
-Good to meet you.
-Me, too.
-ANDY: Uh. Andy Sipowicz.
-Hey.
Stan Hatcher.
Where do I know that name from?
The school bus of blind kids
that was saved from plunging
off the bridge...
-that was me.
-(GREG COUGHS)
-Greg Medavoy.
-Hey, how's it going?
-Baldwin Jones.
-What's up, man?
-Where were you before this, Stan?
-The 7-2.
-So, what are we looking at here?
-Uh. DOA, black male.
Uh. No witnesses, no signs of a robbery.
-Wearing those colors, gotta be a blood.
-We picked up on that.
Somebody should talk to the Latin Kings.
-Why them?
-Word I'm hearing is some blood
made inappropriate remarks
to the girlfriend of a high-up Latin King.
Lots of threats going
back and forth since.
-And you got this word how?
-I used to work the gang unit.
Still keep my ear to the ground.
-Run with it.
-Done.
BALDWIN: We'll get a canvas started.
Seems all right.
Stan Hatcher.
I know that name from somewhere.
Yeah, he's the one
who saved the school bus.
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(THEME MUSIC FADES)
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
(MUSIC FADES)
-How's the new guy?
-Phew! Witty.
JOHN: He didn't raise any flags.
Regardless, how about making a call
to the 7-2,
see what they got
on this guy Stan Hatcher?
Run a credit check, too?
-I'll see what I can do.
-(PARROT SQUAWKING)
-What the hell was that?
-African gray parrot.
Sergeant Gibson brought
it in this morning.
-It's quite vocal.
-(PARROT SQUAWKING)
Gentlemen, what do we got?
-DOA black male. May be gang-related.
-What's with the bird?
-(MIMICS)
-Who, him?
-Yeah.
-Oh, that's the colonel.
Had him for years. Friendly as a dog.
-JOHN: Keeping him here?
-Yeah, but trust me,
after a couple of hours,
you'll completely tune him out.
Natural mimics, the African gray.
They hear something,
and pick it right up.
When the colonel says hello,
you swear it was the wife. It's uncanny.
This is a workplace, Gibson.
I'm telling you. Give him time.
You'll fall in love.
(PARROT SQUAWKING)
You must be Hatcher.
Sergeant Edward Gibson.
-Welcome to the best squad in the city.
-Glad to be here.
John Irvin.
-What's up, man?
-Hey, man. Not much.
Hi, uh, Connie McDowell.
-Look at you, ready to pop.
-Yeah, yeah. A month away.
With the help of certain people
who shall not be named.
-Oh, really?
-How about getting him set up, Gibsy.
Me and Andy go way back,
which is why he calls me Gibsy
instead of Sergeant.
Yeah. So, uh, I'm assuming
this is gonna be your desk.
But this is my last day
before I start my maternity leave so...
No problem, I don't spend
much time at the desk anyway.
-Hey, I'm Rita Ortiz.
-Hey, Stan Hatcher.
So, where are we at as far as background
on the DOA?
I ran him through the the gang unit,
they said the DOA
was a hardcore gangbanger
with Avenue D Bloods.
My contact says
one of the DOA's homeboys
made a move on the girlfriend
of a guy named Wilmer Lopez.
A Latin King.
Bingo! Wilmer goes
by the name King Jazz.
-We'll head out to talk to him.
-Sounds good.
(PARROT SQUAWKING)
-This kid's sharp, huh?
-(PARROT SQUAWKING)
Keep the door closed,
or I'm getting some duct tape.
Ed Boyanovich,
I need to talk to somebody.
My daughter's been kidnapped.
Detective Jones, Medavoy.
Let's go talk in here.
(PARROT SQUAWKING)
What's your daughter's name,
Mr. Boyanovich?
Carla. She's 15.
She's been seeing
this boy, Charles Slocum.
They go to The Kendall School.
She's a sophomore.
He's a senior, rich kid.
-Does that factor in?
-He factors in.
He's taking her to night clubs, parties.
She starts coming home after curfew.
-I called to talk to his parents.
-They aren't around.
When was the last time
you saw your daughter?
Two nights ago.
It had been really so calm
around the house the last few weeks.
She said her and Slocum broke up.
But then I get home about 9:30,
and there's a note on the chalkboard
by the fridge.
"You can't stop me."
-Did you call Slocum's place?
-Hell, yes, I did.
No answer.
So I go over his building,
I watch the doorman
talk on the house phone
for like, five minutes,
and he's got the brass
to tell me that nobody's home.
I get in his face,
he threatens to call the cops on me.
-All right, we'll go talk to Slocum.
-What am I supposed to do?
This kid is basically
holding my daughter hostage.
Sir, understanding
how frustrating it is,
we wouldn't call it a kidnapping.
It's more of a runaway situation.
But you... you don't understand.
Carla is a young 15.
She only just started
coming out of her shell
after her mom died three years ago.
Then she meets this older, rich kid,
and she's completely starry-eyed.
Let's concentrate on getting
your daughter home.
But what this Slocum kid
is doing is criminal, right?
Huh? Keeping her from me...
that's breaking the law.
Give us Slocum's address.
We'll talk to him.
Even though his family has money,
he don't get no special treatment, right?
If we find something criminal,
he'll face charges.
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
-RITA: Wilmer Lopez?
-(MUSIC FADES)
-Are you Wilmer Lopez?
-I don't know that name.
We can talk here, or we can go down
to the station house.
What's it gonna be?
King Jazz, we need
a few minutes of your time.
Doesn't concern your men,
so if you ask them to step aside,
we'd appreciate it. All respect.
So what's this about?
-You know Tony DeKeys?
-Yeah, what about him?
We heard there was a dispute
with the Avenue D Bloods
over a woman named Theresa Guzman.
That's your girlfriend, right?
Yeah, that's right,
but there's no dispute with the Bloods.
One of them didn't hit on your girl?
-There weren't threats made?
-No.
All right, let's go.
We'll talk at our office.
All right. (SCOFFS)
Dispute's been settled.
Tribute's been paid.
Are you saying there was no
termination order on DeKeys?
-You say this guy got killed?
-Yeah.
It didn't come from us. Tribute was paid.
Where were you this morning
between eight and nine?
You're treating me with respect,
so I'll tell you.
This morning at eight, I took my mom
to physical therapy. She's got a bad hip.
-Where did you take her?
-To the Y on Sixth.
-Can anyone confirm that?
-My mom, people at the Y.
You don't know anything
about DeKeys getting killed?
Whatever happened to that Blood,
it ain't no business of the Kings.
We need anything else, we'll let you know.
-Appreciate your time.
-WILMER: No problem.
He's lying.
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
(MUSIC FADES)
-Charlie Slocum?
-Yeah?
Detective Jones and Medavoy.
Can we come in?
I'm not skipping school.
I'm just not feeling well.
This isn't about that.
-Mind if we come in, Charlie?
-You wanna get sick too?
-There a reason you don't want us inside?
-No. Come on in.
It's Charles, by the way.
All right, Charles.
You know a Carla Boyanovich?
She's my girlfriend. Why?
-When did you see Carla last?
-Day before yesterday at school.
-You haven't seen or heard from her since?
-CHARLES: No.
She called me that night.
-What's going on? Is she okay?
-You know anything about her running away?
No. Is that what she did?
Did she say anything on the phone
that seemed off?
Mm, she was bitching
about her dad, as usual.
And if she ran away,
I can understand why.
-He's a major-league asshole.
-So she's not here with you?
-No.
-Where are your parents?
A Buddhist retreat
in Western Massachusetts.
The maid's here though,
if you wanna talk to her.
So, if we take a look around,
we're not gonna find Carla hiding
in a broom closet?
I swear I don't know where she is.
All I know is her dad
should ease up on her.
Charles, the situation with you, Carla,
and her dad...
we'd rather not get involved.
But if you're lying, we're gonna have to.
You'll be sorry we did.
-I'm not lying.
-We'll take that look around anyway.
Be my guests.
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
(MUSIC FADES)
(GROANS) That was my old boss
who worked at the 7-2 with Hatcher.
He said Hatcher only worked there
a few months.
-Why'd he leave?
-CONNIE: He didn't say.
And when I asked him what kind of guy
Hatcher was,
-he said he was fine.
-(PARROT SQUAWKING)
-Fine? What does that mean?
-I guess it means he was fine.
Or you got an old boss who doesn't wanna
go out on a limb
and bad-mouth another cop,
So he throws up this marshmallow word,
like "Fine."
-Or that. Okay.
-Where did this guy work before the 7-2?
-The 5-0. Do I need to pursue this?
-If you have some time.
IRVIN: (SCREAMS, GROANS) Oh!
I swear this is the first time he ever
bitten anyone other than me or the wife.
I'm fine. It's not bleeding... much.
I think I'll wash this out.
See, the thing is, they sense fear.
So you gotta be real confident
around them, almost aggressive.
-I'll just keep my distance.
-(PARROT SQUAWKING)
It was nothing. A nick.
-Buzzard should be put down.
-He just needs time to acclimate.
-(PARROT SQUAWKING)
-How'd it go?
Uh. Lopez says the Kings aren't involved,
but Stan's got a theory.
He's not copping to nothing yet.
I wanted to go down there to feel him out.
We'll check out his alibi
and gear up for round two.
One of the DOA's neighbors called in.
She saw the building super
run to his car and take off
right after the shots.
Super's name is Lonnie Parker. He's 65.
Lot of arrests back in his day.
He, uh, did 15 years for a bank robbery.
Finished three years ago.
So we're gonna go looking
for a 65-year-old perp?
-No, we've been looking. He's in the wind.
-Yeah, he's got a son, Calvin.
Works at the supermarket on First and B.
He's on his way in.
We're gonna stay on the Latin King angle.
-Is that cool?
-Absolutely.
Nothing wrong with covering all the bases.
What's up with the missing girl?
We went through the apartment.
She wasn't there.
Which doesn't mean this, uh,
Slocum kid isn't lying.
-(PHONE RINGING)
-We got her best friend coming in.
-IRVIN: 15th Squad
-Sounds good.
Thank you.
Calvin Parker's on his way up.
-Uh, Rita...
-RITA: Yes.
-How did he do?
-Okay.
-Okay or good?
-Fine. He did fine.
Fine.
(PARROT SQUAWKING)
-Calvin Parker?
-CALVIN: Yeah.
Detectives Sipowicz and Clark.
We just got a few questions
about your dad.
-So, what's he done now?
-Why do you say that?
-You're police. You should know.
-We just wanna talk to him, Calvin.
You, uh, you try that apartment
building he works in?
JOHN: Yeah, he's not there.
-(DOOR CLOSES)
-I can't help you.
-When did you hear from him last?
(SIGHS) Five, six months ago.
He said, "Maybe we should get together."
I said, "Maybe we shouldn't."
Haven't heard since.
You can call yourself a dad,
it don't make you a father, right?
-JOHN: Any brothers or sisters?
-No.
-What about your mom?
-Tampa.
He wouldn't dare go to her.
All he did was cause her grief.
Broken promises, and that's when
he wasn't in prison.
So, is there any place that you know of
that we can look for him?
No idea.
-(SIGHS)
-So, what'd he do?
There was a shooting.
He might have seen it.
The man is 65 years old.
He's still mixed up in that bullshit.
No, we're looking at him
as a possible witness that's all.
-Mm-hmm.
-Listen, Calvin, uh, no offense,
but seeing as you're his only
close relation,
we're just gonna double-check that
you were at work this morning.
No, I got it. Ask for Frank,
he's my supervisor.
But make sure he don't think
I'm involved in something.
Sure. Just wait here.
(ROCK MUSIC PLAYING)
-(DOOR CLOSES)
-Thanks for coming in, Madison.
MADISON: Sure.
Now tell me how long have you known,
uh, Carla Boyanovich?
Since she started at Kendall.
Uh. Two years ago, I guess. Why?
It looks like she maybe
took an unscheduled vacation
without telling her dad.
You know anything about it?
-No.
-What kind of a girl is she?
Kind of innocent
because her dad's overprotective.
I think maybe she's self-conscious
because her family doesn't have
as much money as the other students.
As much money as Charles Slocum's family,
for example?
I guess.
-Have you spoken with Carla today?
-No.
-When did you see her last?
-At school... two days ago.
She say anything about going away
or trouble at home?
No... no.
-Is something on your mind, Madison?
-You think Carla is okay, right?
-At this point we don't know anything.
-Why do you ask?
I mean, if you thought that something
was really wrong, you'd say so, right?
The only way we can do that
is if we have all the information.
Yeah, if you know anything,
you should tell us.
About two weeks ago,
Carla told me she was pregnant.
-Is Charles the father?
-Yeah. She's pretty freaked out.
-She afraid to tell her father?
-Yeah, and Charles.
-BALDWIN: Why is she afraid of Charles?
-Because she isn't gonna have an abortion.
She thought that might scare him away.
I told her Charles is a good guy,
and that she should tell him.
I guess she did,
because the next time I asked,
she said... they were working it out.
And that's the last time
you talked to her?
No, I got a call from her two nights ago.
She said she was gonna see Charles.
And everything was fine.
She told me she loved me,
which was kind of weird.
Did she say where she was going
or what they were going to do?
No. You swear you won't tell anyone this
unless you absolutely have to?
-You're doing a good thing.
-It doesn't feel like it.
All right, thanks a lot.
Calvin was at work all day.
You think he's telling the truth
about not knowing where the dad is?
We believe him and the dad
are on the outs.
Where are you guys at with the Latin King?
The Y confirmed that Lopez
dropped off his mother.
Still, Lopez has at least
50 gangbangers under him.
-He easily could have pushed a button.
-I like the super, and the fact
that we can't put our hands on him
only reinforces it.
Let's put an alarm out on him and his car.
I'll put word out we want him brought in
as a potential witness,
but I don't want a big fuss.
JOHN: We'll kick the son.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, we're not gonna
double up on this guy first?
What does that mean?
All squads I've worked,
we always had a fresh face
go in on the second interview
if the first team came up empty,
or the guy's reluctant.
-We didn't come up empty, Stan.
-Don't take me wrong.
I'm just saying that's just the way
I'm used to playing it.
And, uh, it's never hurt.
ANDY: What happened
to the Latin King angle
-you were so big on?
-(PARROT SQUAWKING)
All I want is a shooter.
Whoever it is, right?
-Get it.
-STAN: Right on.
And listen, goes both ways,
if you ever wanna re-interview
one of my guys, jump on in.
Sounds good.
(PARROT SQUAWKING)
Let's go see what he's got.
(PARROT MIMICKING)
-How's it going, man? Stan Hatcher.
-Can I get back to work now?
-Just hear me out first, all right?
-Okay.
My dad, we don't speak.
not since I was 16.
He's got his thing, I've got mine.
-That's just the way it is.
-I hear you.
Still, couple of phone calls,
I know where to find him.
I don't know what the hell is going on,
or what you want him for.
We're still trying to put it together.
Basically, a Blood got shot up,
we think by some Latin Kings.
-Big fight over this ho.
-What the hell is he telling him that for?
This is about a gang shooting.
-Well, that's one theory.
-We're pretty confident.
My dad ain't no gangbanger.
That much I know.
We know he was there, though.
We figure he saw it go down
and got scared.
-All we wanna do is talk to him.
-Okay.
A guy like your dad,
he knows people, right?
-I guess.
-He's in trouble.
There's gotta be somebody
he's gonna reach out to. Right?
Might be.
I'm thinking you might know
a couple of names,
keeping in mind that the Kings
are probably looking for him.
And ain't nobody gonna like what they do
when they catch up to him.
I really don't wanna get back
into dealing with him.
You have to. And then,
you'll be done with it.
I might know one or two guys.
I could get in touch
I'll tell them what you said.
-I mean, I'll try.
-All we can ask.
Got a little lucky, I guess.
Sure you don't wanna just hand him
the case file before he gets out the door?
He had to know we're not looking
at his dad,
-or he wasn't gonna say anything.
-But we are looking at his dad.
I thought the job was to get
the old man in.
Once he is, we go at him. Right?
Are we not closer
than we were ten minutes ago?
Don't look at me.
Letting him in there was your idea.
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
Tell us where Carla is.
You can walk out of here,
we forget this whole thing.
-I told you, I don't know.
-(MUSIC FADES)
But you knew she was
pregnant with your kid?
Who told you that?
We're checking your home phone
and your cell right now.
If you've had any contact
with Carla, we will know.
We know that Carla
doesn't wanna have an abortion.
So, if you've put her up somewhere
to try and talk her into one.
Or if you took her someplace
to have one, we won't judge.
No, no!
It's a big thing when
your girl gets pregnant.
All sorts of stuff can go through
your head and cloud your judgment.
I didn't want Carla to have an abortion!
GREG: Then where is she?
Because whatever's going on here,
Carla's gotta go home, period.
We haven't brought up criminal charges.
But if you keep stonewalling us,
we can talk about kidnapping,
statutory rape, obstruction of justice...
CHARLES: You don't understand.
-It was nothing like that.
-What was nothing like that?
I'm gonna get pissed here
in about two seconds.
We wanted to do something beautiful,
-but I couldn't do it.
-BALDWIN: Do what?
We... we had a pact.
We... we talked it over,
and we made a pact.
-What kind of pact?
-If Carla had the baby,
her father would never let us be together,
and we... we couldn't get rid of the baby,
so... we made a pact.
Charles, is Carla okay?
(SOBS) She wanted to go first.
She said she couldn't watch me.
(SNIFFLES)
But... but when I reached for the gun...
(SOBS)
I... I couldn't do it.
-Where is she?
-A building on Third.
Let's go.
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
(MUSIC FADES)
-So...
-(DOOR CLOSES)
-Carla wanted to go first.
-Yeah.
She put the gun to her head,
and she pulled the trigger.
-Yeah.
-Then what happened?
I picked up the gun,
but I saw her lying there with...
blood pouring out of her head,
and I just ran away.
So you didn't fire the gun after she did?
No. I put it on the floor
and just... ran off.
You got a big problem, Charles.
We just talked to crime scene,
and they found two shell casings
and two slugs
-and they both came from that MAC-10
-That's not possible!
Carla shooting herself twice
isn't possible, yeah,
-which leaves one other scenario.
-No, it's a mistake.
She was pregnant.
She wouldn't get an abortion.
You argued with her. She wouldn't listen.
-No, I didn't argue about...
-GREG: You killed her
and then you staged this
"Romeo and Juliet" scene
-with the flowers and the candles
-I wouldn't shoot her. I couldn't!
We're talking first-degree murder now,
that's the death penalty.
Tell the truth and maybe
you can save your life.
Carla and I talked about this for days.
We discussed it, we planned.
We wrote e-mails. Check my laptop...
and hers. You'll see.
We still aren't hearing an explanation
for the two bullets.
I don't have one. Maybe somebody else
came by afterwards,
-and... fired the gun.
-GREG: Charles, that's pathetic.
-Be a man and admit what you did.
-She pulled the trigger and collapsed.
I picked the gun up,
then set it down and ran.
That's what happened, I swear to God.
-CONNIE: Thanks.
-What'd they say?
She said she didn't know
Hatcher that well.
But she worked with him?
Yeah, and as far as that goes,
she said he was...
-She used the word "Fine."
-See? See?
-No, I don't, actually.
-Nobody wants to talk about this guy.
Or he's just been flying under the radar.
ANDY: No way. We've got a guy that worked
a few months here, a few months there.
There's a reason
he's always getting the boot.
Because a good detective... his boss
makes sure he stays put.
-Where's Ortiz and Stan?
-Re-canvassing.
He's sticking to his story.
We're gonna get TARU to pull the e-mails
off their computers.
-You said the girl used a MAC-10?
-Yeah, that's right.
Where do two private school kids
get ahold of a cannon like that?
Where do they get coke
and limos and pounds of weed?
This Slocum kid's got money.
-IRVIN: 15th Squad...
-Uh. ATF Is trying to trace the gun.
Thank you. Uniform just picked
up Lonnie Parker for taking a red light.
-They're bringing him in.
-All right.
(GRUNTS)
-Just do me a favor.
-I'm not calling anybody else on Hatcher.
(PARROT LAUGHS)
You hear that? That's me.
That's my laugh.
Keep the door closed
or the beak gets taped.
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
(MUSIC FADES)
LONNIE: The 15th.
-Place looks exactly like it was in '71.
-Yeah.
I'll tell you, I went to this barber shop
I used to go to over on Third Avenue.
The whole damn block
is designer shoes now.
It's nice to know
some things haven't changed.
-Had a hard time find you today, Lonnie.
-Yeah. Sometimes I just check out.
-That's still legal, right?
-Well, that all depends
on what you were doing
before you checked out.
I did some chores,
got in my car around 8:00 a.m.,
headed up to the Bronx
to pick up some PVC.
This guy on Glenhill Road
gives me a price.
You see anything
before you got in your car?
-No.
-You know Tony DeKeys?
Sure, he's a tenant.
You got a problem with him?
He's new, so not too much.
I got no beef with him,
if that's what you mean.
-Did you see him this morning?
-I don't believe I did.
Lonnie, you got six years of parole
to get through, right?
Now why are you asking about that?
Because I don't buy
a word you're saying to us
and until you start telling the truth,
I'm gonna spend my time thinking of how
to violate your parole.
It's up to you.
See, we know you made a run
for your car this morning.
Wanna tell us why?
-I can't get involved.
-You already are.
In my day, there was a beef,
you handled it with fists,
or a knife, maybe.
But young guys today,
they got no mercy.
So, what was this beef you had
with DeKeys?
I didn't have none.
But, apparently, he had
a beef with someone else.
You see where I'm going?
Well, we'll keep you out of it, if we can
and we'll protect you, if we can.
I don't want to get
mixed up with these kids.
Lonnie, we can lock you up
right now as a material witness.
That make you feel any better?
-You give me protection?
-If it's warranted, absolutely.
I come out of my building.
Saw Tony in his car.
And these two Spanish kids
walk up to him.
Not a word, nothing.
(IMITATES SHOT)
-I hightailed it out of there.
-You recognize the two Spanish guys?
Don't know their names.
I've seen them. They Latin Kings.
I figured it was some gang thing.
Everybody knows Tony was a Blood.
We'll need you to stick around
and show you some photos.
Yeah, all right.
Did you speak to your son
recently, Lonnie?
Calvin? Haven't heard from him in months.
-Why? Is he okay?
-Yeah.
Hey.
He says it was two Latin Kings.
Doesn't know their names,
but he's gonna look at some mug shots.
We're gonna get him up to anticrime.
Thanks.
We'll go get Wilmer Lopez.
(AS ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER)
We'll be back.
-(CONNIE CHUCKLES)
-(DOOR OPENS)
-He's enthusiastic.
-Let's dump Calvin's phones.
-I wanna know if his dad called him.
-JOHN: Yeah. Good.
Check on any pay phones
around the supermarket too.
-(PARROT SQUAWKING)
-What's up?
I just talked to ballistics
on your suicide.
The MAC-10 that you found
at the scene,
it was modified for automatic fire.
They're saying one trigger pull
could've fired two bullets.
-So maybe she did shoot herself.
-Also, I, uh, I ran the gun through ATF.
They said the gun was from a shipment
that was stolen out of Providence.
They picked up the gun dealer
a few months back.
-Is there a connection?
-Well, Slocum's brother, Peter Slocum,
was arrested in Providence
for dealing meth out of his dorm room
two years ago.
So Providence PD is gonna take
the brother's photo,
show it to the gun dealer,
see if he picks it out.
All right. well, let us know
when they get back to you.
We're still working with TARU
on the e-mails off their computers.
Okay.
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
Hey, this ain't right.
I didn't do nothing, all right?
We don't appreciate being lied to, Wilmer.
(MUSIC FADES)
Turns out DeKeys was killed
by some Latin Kings.
-That's not true.
-We have a witness.
Ask anybody. Ask the Bloods. Ask Theresa.
-We settled it, just like I told you.
-Maybe you had some other beef with him.
Look, we settle something, it's settled.
-Did you talk to the Y?
-Oh, yeah.
They told you I was there. Didn't they?
Wilmer, we're not saying
you pulled the trigger.
We believe you know who did.
I'm telling you this wasn't the Kings.
We got honor.
We don't take action without good cause
and if it was a murder
involving the Kings,
then it went down freelance.
Will you listen to how this guy talks
about his greaser thugs?
Wilmer, you're so full of crap,
it's no wonder your skin is brown.
(SPEAKING SPANISH)
-Start talking english, asshole.
-All right, enough.
I know you did this,
and we're staying here till you admit it.
All right, we're gonna give you a minute.
When we come back in here,
we want the real story.
I already told it to you.
-Don't do that again.
-I didn't mean anything
by the brown skin comment.
I'm talking about smacking a guy in cuffs.
Sometimes it gets physical
in the room, Rita.
Not when a guy's in cuffs.
I don't work that way.
Okay. Let's go uncuff him then.
Will that make you happy?
Do something like that again,
you're done working with me.
Now this interview's over for you.
-Go get some fresh air.
-(CHUCKLES)
(SIGHS)
(UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING)
"The place we're going is a garden,
green and filled with life.
"The path is hard, but once there,
you, me and the baby
"will be entombed in bliss forever."
-Trying to woo me there, missy?
-(CONNIE CHUCKLES)
Actually, it's an e-mail
from Charles Slocum to the DOA girl.
Oh, okay. It's hard being a teen.
Yeah, so far, uh, most of the e-mails
are from Charles.
He wrote about five times
as many messages as Carla.
It looks like they were both thinking
about suicide,
but he was thinking about
a whole lot more.
-TARU pulled that off their computers?
-Yeah.
(PARROT SQUAWKING)
Lopez still says it's not the Kings.
I'm starting to believe him.
-Where's Hatcher?
-I don't know.
How was he in the room?
And don't say "Fine."
He's got a different style,
but we'll work it out.
-Mm-hmm. See? See?
-See what?
He's got her throwing out
marshmallows, too.
This guy's a problem.
Andy, phone dumps came in. Bunch of
calls between Calvin and his dad's cell.
The first was 15 minutes
after the shooting.
-How about after we talked to Calvin?
-Yeah, calls back and forth then too.
-Who do we go at first? The son?
-Yeah, definitely.
(PARROT SQUAWKING)
Hey, here's a few more e-mails
off those computers.
IRVIN: Thank you.
-Hey, you're from TARU?
-Yeah.
ANDY: Come walk with me here.
Check this out. E-mail received
by Charles Slocum.
The dealer in Providence confirmed he sold
a MAC-10 to Slocum's brother.
We got a lot to talk about with Charles.
-You're a music fan, Charles?
-I don't understand.
You're one of those guys
that, uh, hears about hot a concert
-and, uh, rushes out to get tickets?
-What does this have to do with anything?
We found this receipt on your computer.
Two tickets to a concert
at the Beacon next month.
-Bought three days ago.
-So?
So if you were gonna commit suicide
the next day,
why are you buying tickets
for a concert a month from now?
I was gonna give them to a friend.
This e-mail says hat the tickets
won't arrive until two days from now.
So how were you planning on giving them
to your friend if you were dead?
You know, maybe
I wasn't thinking so clearly.
Or you were never gonna kill yourself.
Carla told you she was pregnant
but wouldn't have an abortion,
and you weren't up for that.
So, you sold her this pact,
and she bought it.
All I did was fail to commit suicide,
which is not a crime.
To prove otherwise, you'd have
to know what was inside my head.
This tells us.
I was upset. I didn't know
what I was doing. Doesn't prove a thing.
We can prove how you got that gun
from your brother on Providence.
All I did was borrow it from him.
BALDWIN: That's transporting a gun
across state lines to commit a crime.
That's a federal offense.
Get you a mandatory minimum of ten years.
And that's not including what you can get
for assisting a suicide.
If you want any consideration,
this is your last chance.
Okay, look.
Honestly, I was 50/50 going into it.
Half of you knew that you'd make it
to the concert next month.
Yeah, but half of me really wanted
to end it all
and get away from this whole mess.
But you let your girlfriend
think you were a 100 percent behind it.
My girlfriend?
She got pregnant to go after
my family's money.
-She told you this?
-No, but come on.
You're gonna do every day
of those ten years, Charles.
I'm gonna see to it.
I haven't heard from my dad,
if that's why I'm here.
(DOOR CLOSES)
-You got a family? Wife, kids?
-Yeah.
ANDY: And you're independently
wealthy, right?
So when you go to jail,
that won't be a hiccup
as far as their lifestyle's concerned...
food, clothing, rent.
What the hell are you talking about?
You lied to us, Calvin.
We checked your cell phone.
We know you've been talking
to your dad today.
Okay, maybe I did.
But what's the crime?
Obstruction of justice,
accessory after the fact,
a couple of other fancy legal terms
that you'll be able to contemplate
during your five years in jail.
-Five years? I didn't do anything.
-Then what were the phone calls about?
Okay. First time, he called.
He said that he was in trouble.
I said to turn himself in.
He said that he would die in prison
if he did.
After you talked to us,
what'd you tell your dad?
Five years, Calvin. No joke.
Did you tell him play up
the witness angle?
CALVIN: Yeah.
And that other detective said that
it might be Latin Kings involved,
so I told my dad
he might wanna use that, too.
-You involved in this, Calvin?
-No! No!
I'd never kill someone.
I'm not like my dad.
Then why've you been lying?
He's a screw-up. And I hate him for it.
But he's my dad. I can't just
turn my back on him.
-Get in.
-I'm under arrest?
You're staying here until we talk
to your dad. Let's go.
(TENSE MUSIC PLAYING)
Am I looking at pictures or a lineup?
What's he done?
Lied to us. All day,
trying to cover your ass.
Admitted that he gave you
the Latin King alibi.
Which is enough to put him away.
That wasn't no alibi.
Those Spanish kids shot Tony.
ANDY: Lonnie, that's your son in there.
You haven't burned him enough
in your lifetime,
now you're gonna put him in jail.
Or is he more involved than he's saying,
'cause right now he's taking the ride.
Okay, then. Let's go.
In the joint, in order to survive,
there are certain things
you can't let slide.
And people can talk all they want,
cut in line, hog the phone.
But they violate your personal space,
you gotta react.
Your life ain't worth living if you don't.
-What did DeKeys do to you?
-He was a prick from day one.
Loud music, leaving trash in the hall,
smoking weed on the stoop
with families walking in.
I talked to him about all that,
but I kept it civil.
This morning, taking out the garbage,
I forgot to lock my door.
I get back, and someone's pissed
on my bed.
I walk out in the hall
and Tony is smiling at me.
-I can't let that slide.
-Where did you get the gun?
I kept one for protection.
So I grab it, went looking for Tony.
He's in his car.
Make sure he saw me.
And then I shot that son of a bitch
till I knew he was dead.
-You're letting my boy go, right?
-Yeah.
No way.
She had an SAT prep course she was taking.
She was going to music camp this summer,
to see the ballet next month,
which she was really looking forward to.
There is no way that she killed herself.
We're very sorry, but it looks like
that's the case.
How do you know he didn't get
my little girl up there,
and put a bullet in her himself
and make it look like suicide?
The e-mails we told you about showed
your daughter was preparing for this.
This little prick has you conned.
He set this whole thing up.
-And he's gonna face charges.
-For a gun violation?
This guy should be going away for murder.
There's what we think happened
and what we can prove.
And unfortunately, all we can prove
is the gun violation
and assisting a suicide.
But you have my word that that'll stick,
and I will stay with the case
every step of the way.
While his rich family lawyer
sweeps it under the rug?
Charles Slocum will do ten years.
(SOBS)
I should have bricked up
the door from him.
I should have done more
to keep her safe.
She was 15 years old.
At that point,
they're making their own decisions.
But did I protect her too much,
so she wasn't prepared
for a guy like this?
You loved her, you provided for her.
That's all any parent can do.
(WATER RUNNING)
-Heard you collared up.
-Yeah.
Congrats on that.
Hey, uh, asking around before I got here,
I was told you're the man.
So I'm coming to you, if you got a second.
What's your question?
Ortiz, she's standup, right?
'Cause we had a little
miscommunication earlier.
-I don't know if she told you anything.
-She didn't.
Is the book on her like
she's overly sensitive or...
-No.
-Good. That's what I figured.
I may have gotten
a little too enthusiastic in the room.
-You know how it is.
-Yeah, well, either way,
Ortiz didn't say anything to me about it.
(SIGHS)
So, word I got was that the perp
snapped over some prison flashback.
(LOCKER SLAMS)
We burned half our day on account of you
telling the son about about
your Latin King theory,
which he turned around and passed
on to his dad as an alibi.
I just wanted to get the dad in.
Didn't we cover this already?
You need to lay back
and see how this squad works.
And that was the last double-up interview
-you're gonna do on one of my cases.
-Fine. No sweat.
I'd like to fit in with the team here,
so, how about tomorrow
we make a fresh start?
-Cool?
-Sure.
Heard a lot of good things about you.
I know I can learn a lot.
Good night.
-(PARROT SQUAWKING)
-Hatcher found you.
-Tomorrow he starts fresh.
-JOHN: Connie's got some news on him.
-Oh, yeah?
-CONNIE: Nothing big.
A friend of the 2-3 told me
Hatcher's uncle is the...
the Chief of Personnel.
Huh. So every time he screws up,
he just gets bounced to a new command.
Gibson got to be CO here
'cause he's a golf buddy
with the Chief of Personnel, right?
Yeah. Do I need to stay here
and make sure you don't pounce on him?
I'm fine.
All right. Well...
if anyone needs me
over the next few months,
I'll... I'll be at home with my feet up.
All right, if his, uh, cooking gets old,
I'll just rush over takeout.
-Okay, good to know.
-ANDY: I'll leave in a little bit.
Great work, guys. Top shelf.
So, uh, you and the Chief of Personnel
are buddies, right, Gibson?
-We're friendly.
-Chief of Personnel,
-who's Hatcher's uncle?
-Where are you going with this, Andy?
You getting promoted to CO of a squad,
which was quite a jump, Gibson.
Did that come with the condition
of taking on Hatcher,
who's been tossed out of every other squad
in this city?
We were gonna be short a man.
Stan was available.
Was it a nice thing
to do for a friend? Sure.
Do you not have friends?
Do you not do nice things?
That's fine. But if the day comes
when he needs to get tossed out of here,
you better have the spine.
I got spine all day long, Andy.
-Don't question that.
-Then we're square.
-Good.
-ANDY: Good.
-Good night.
-EDDIE: Help you?
-Yeah, I'm here to see him.
He here with your rabies shot, Andy?
-Good night, Gibson.
-JOHN: See ya, Sarge.
-He cool?
-ANDY: He's cool.
This never happened
and we never met, right?
-I owe you one.
-Any time.
Oh, man, you are going to hell for this.
It's always been my hope
God's got a sense of humor.
(PARROT WHISTLES)
AUTOMATED VOICE: Douche bag.
-(PARROT WHISTLES)
-Douche bag.
Deep, deep into hell.
-(PARROT WHISTLES)
-Douche bag. Douche bag.
-Douche bag.
-(PARROT WHISTLES)
Douche bag. Douche bag. Douche bag.
(PARROT WHISTLES)
(THEME MUSIC PLAYING)
(THEME MUSIC FADES)